---
title: Whanganui High School Confucius Classroom
feature_image:
  image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1733452507/News/dragon4.jpg
news_author:
  date: 2024-12-03T03:36:00.000Z
image_gallery:
  - image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1733452509/News/dragon3.png
  - image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1733452506/News/dragon.jpg
  - image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1733452506/News/dragon2.jpg
  - image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1733452506/News/dragon1.jpg
show_in_slider: true
date: 2024-12-03T03:36:00.000Z
---

Dragon boat racing, cultural resonance 2024 Whanganui High School's first dragon boat race came to a successful conclusion. On the morning of November 24th, local time, the first Whanganui High School Dragon Boat Race, hosted by the Confucius Classroom of Whanganui High School and co-organized by the Whanganui Rowing Club, was successfully held. The event aims to integrate Chinese traditional culture with New Zealand's local sports culture and provide a platform for cultural [](<>)exchanges between China and New Zealand. Contestants from Whanganui High School, community residents and dragon boat enthusiasts gathered to witness this meaningful sports event. Dragon boat racing is an important sports activity in Chinese traditional culture, carrying a strong national cultural connotation, while rowing is a traditional water sport for New Zealanders to pursue strength and speed. This competition takes "dragon boat" as the starting point, cleverly combining the profound connotation of Chinese traditional culture with the competitive spirit of New Zealand rowing and is a successful combine between the two cultures. The nine participating teams arrived at the Whanganui Rowing Club at 8 a.m. on the same day. On the banks of the Whanganui River, the contestants carefully decorated their "dragon boats". The design of the dragon head and tail, the bright colours and the creative decorations not only show the contestants' understanding of the Chinese dragon boat, but also reflect the contestants' artistic talent and team spirit. At 9 a.m., the competition officially began. The participating teams competed fiercely on the Whanganui River. The contestants paddled together and sprinted to the finish line; the cheers of the audience on the shore came one after another, pushing the atmosphere of the competition to a climax, and the atmosphere on the scene was warm and extraordinary. At the end of the event, Beck Ding, the head of the Confucius Classroom from Whanganui High School, awarded the first place in the race. In addition, the event also selected the "Team Best Dragon Boat Decoration Award" and "Team Best Clothing Award". This event not only showed the charm of competitive sports, but also allowed participants and on-site audiences to fully experience the unique charm of the fusion of two cultures. The successful holding of this dragon boat race is another attempt to successfully integrate Chinese and New Zealand cultures. It not only adds a touch of cultural colour to the local community, but also provides an opportunity to further promote cultural understanding and exchanges between China and New Zealand. In the future, the Confucius Classroom at Whanganui High School will continue to explore more diverse cultural activities, deepen the understanding of Chinese language and culture.
