---
title: Whanganui High School Sports
feature_image:
  image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1774812329/whscrick_e5t4iv.jpg
news_author:
  date: 2026-03-29T08:27:00+13:00
show_in_slider: true
date: 2026-03-29T08:28:00+13:00
---
Whanganui High School First XI cricket were able to go one better than 2025 earning third in the annual Ross Taylor Bat Tournament held in Palmerston North this week.  Conditions on day one were challenging with a pitch that held a few demons and bowlers that were well disciplined.  A fighting 59 from Noah Toy was the highlight of the day and some searing pace from Drian Joubert snaring three wickets. The key lesson of the day coming from Wairarapa College who showed us how to run singles. Day two started against Paraparaumu College.  Asked to bat we posted an under par 114 thanks to 34 from Jackson Bellis and 21 from Ethan Toy. In reply Parparaumu were able to hold onto their wickets were able to run us down in 15 overs.  The afternoon game against Fielding doubled as a McVicar cup game and this seemed to give the team an edge not yet seen in the tournament.  Ethan To grabbed three wickets as we restricted Fielding to 127.  We managed to chase this down in 16 overs with scores from Bruce McGregor (30), Noah Toy (24), Liam Cox 23 and Jackson Bellis (20).  Day three we had Stratford up first and posted a mammoth 194 against a weaker bowling attack.  Oscar Butcher with 26, Ethan Toy 32, Liam Meijer a classy 41 and Noah Toy with a late blast for his second 50 of the week (54).  Stratford were unable to challenge this score.  With weather conditions deteriorating we had the third fourth play off against Paraparaumu in the afternoon.  Losing the toss we were asked to Bat and Ethan Toy again lead the way with 40.  Jackson Bellis and Liam Cox also contributed with 36 and 24 respectively.  The key feature of our innings was the running between the wickets as we posted a competitive 165.  PC chase hard with their opener scoring a 50 and number three 30.  The boys dug deep and kept the pressure on the batters and the required rate started to climb. Liam Cox was miserly and snared three wickets and Ethan Toy was decisive with his field settings and bowling changes.  Everyone contributed and we were able to restrict PC to 155, ten runs short.  A great week for the entire team and we have come away better for the experience.  Those returning for 2027 now know what is required to succeed at this level and we can prepare for that.  Congratulations to Liam Meijer who was named most improved for WHS the tournament and Ethan Toy named  WHS MVP.
