---
title: "Apprentice one bright spark - May 2015"
date: 1970-01-01
description: "IN THE RUNNING: Former WHS student Jamie Newell will compete in Hamilton on May 26 to 28 for the title Master Electricians Electrical Apprentice of the Year, from Wanganui Chroncile article 4/5/15..."
image: http://c1940652.r52.cf0.rackcdn.com/5553ded8b8d39a0358000a76/Newell-ex-student-apprentice-4.5.15.jpg
excerpt: ""
image_gallery:
    
    
    
    
    
---

<p>IN THE RUNNING: Former WHS student Jamie Newell will compete in Hamilton on May 26 to 28 for the title Master Electricians Electrical <strong>Apprentice</strong> of the Year.</p>
<p>Westmere's Jamie Newell score in the Master Electricians' Challenge was among the top countrywide and he is through to the national final.<br /><span style="line-height: 1.5;">He is </span><strong style="line-height: 1.5;">one</strong><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> of 12 competitors who have reached the national finals of the contest for apprentice electricians.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">The finalists were those who achieved the highest marks overall from seven regional knockout heats held throughout the country during March and April.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">Twenty-one-year-old Jamie works at Q-West boat builders in Castlecliff. He won the Domestic/Commercial division of the regional competition.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">Jamie is looking forward to the challenge of the final.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">"I'm anxious about competing in front of a crowd. But I'm feeling confident and prepared to tackle any electrical challenge they throw at us."<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">The final will be held in Hamilton from May 26 to 28.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">The competition, now in its 14th year, aims to find New Zealand's top electrical apprentices. There are two divisions - Domestic/Commercial and Industrial. Contestants will face two full days of tasks and challenges designed to test their skills and abilities.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">Master Electricians operations manager Bernie McLaughlin said finalists will each face five workstations and have two hours to complete a range of tough tasks, designed to replicate a &lsquo;real industry' setting and applying the latest available technology.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">"The scenarios are designed to test that they can respond swiftly and efficiently to challenging tasks they may face in their working life," said Mr McLaughlin.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">"The industrial category will be slanted towards programmable logic controllers, and motors and motor starters. We are introducing more technology into the domestic/commercial category - so they could be doing anything from wiring through to programming lighting controllers."<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">While this year's task details are under wraps, previous contestants have tackled challenges such as automating the operating system for a rock quarry conveyor belt or automating a simulated motel room with features for guest comfort, such as underfloor heating and motion sensitive lighting.<br /></span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">All the contestants are apprentice electricians, mostly in their final year, who are combining on-job training with off-job training. The winners in each category will win prizes and the title of Master Electricians Electrical </span><strong style="line-height: 1.5;">Apprentice</strong><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> of the Year.</span></p>

