---
title: "School's Annie sets new quality bar - May 2015"
date: 1970-01-01
description: "FINE PERFORMANCE: Devon Harnett as Miss Hannigan in a scene during rehearsals for Annie, from Wanganui Midweek article on 6/5/15..."
image: http://c1940652.r52.cf0.rackcdn.com/5553f4ccff2a7c0377000c8e/Devon-Harnett-Production,Midwk,13.5.15.jpg
excerpt: ""
image_gallery:
    
    
    
    
    
---

<p><span>FINE PERFORMANCE: Devon Harnett as Miss Hannigan in a scene during rehearsals for Annie.</span></p>
<p>JOAN: PACE! ENERGY! These are my favourite words when directing a play and, in my view, the secret of a successful production.<br />They were there with bells on in Wanganui High School's presentation of the musical&nbsp;<em>Annie</em>&nbsp;at the Opera House last week. I had loved their last production&nbsp;<em>Crazy For You</em>. It was well above the expectations of a school musical and took me by surprise. Last year I saw Epsom Girls' Grammar, Auckland's offering of Sondheim's<em>Sweeney Todd</em>, and thought that was the best school show I had ever seen. Until last Friday!<br />I have a vested interest in&nbsp;<em>Annie</em>. I performed in the Amdram production in 1991 as Miss Hannigan. I loved the role and the musical and it was a good show. I was prepared to be "picky" about High School's work. Some hope! I was enthralled from the start. Their production was outstanding.<br />I would like to work backwards from the ensemble scenes to the individual performances. The big numbers were superb! Every one of the huge cast gave their all throughout. THERE was the energy I love, the unity of purpose which must come from the talented directors with their own commitment, knowledge of theatre and the kind of personality that commands respect and, almost, adoration. High School has always had a united staff and every one of them must have been behind this show, working behind the scenes, encouraging. The singing was sharp and always "in the mood" of the scene. The choreography was slick, not a single mistake from anyone. Set, costumes and lighting were great (another gem, Mrs Hardcastle!), and the local orchestra was a joy to listen to. So the students had amazing support. However, out on that large stage with an audience full of expectation and excitement, the theatre can be a lonely and scary place! There was never a sign of that.</p>
<p>The cast had total control of the evening and they were in charge of us! The excitement felt in performing was communicated to us out there and we were captivated. Wow!<br />Getting a main role in a school show is a big thing! If you are already hooked on the theatre, it is the best! The roles in Annie are as well known as are the songs ... a daunting prospect indeed. Playing younger than your own age is tricky, playing older then you are is hard. The student principals in the show met this challenge and added this ability to their most impressive stage presence, fine rendition of melodies and assured characterisation. Wonderful stuff.<br />Annie is the show's title and the work succeeds or fails with the person playing this role. Brilliant casting by the directors, Colin Hedivan and Nola Todd, brought us Shaila-Anne Hawkins. Mel Hawkins, her mother, is a fine local actor and she has been a huge support to Shaila in her already extensive local theatre career. Shaila, you were great! You filled the stage with your presence yet you worked as a team player, never upstaging the rest. You looked right, sang beautifully - your high notes were thrilling - and your energy knew no bounds. Never stereotyped, Shaila brought a freshness to a well-worn character. This lass has a great deal of natural talent but she has the other ingredients of a fine actress. She is thirsty to learn, humble in success and a warm and vital young woman. A small point (but not really) was the controlled way she coped when the belt on her dress dropped to the floor during a chorus number. She showed no outward reaction but her "third eye" was at work and at the perfect moment, when least in view, she picked it up and threw it quickly offstage so it was cleared for the next scene. That is the sign of a true professional.<br />So, a great production. A lot of proud and happy families and pupils. A chance for so many onstage, and especially off, to taste the thrill of being part of success. My special compliments to stage manager Sam Wright. How did you manage your end without total collapse!</p>

