---
title: "Choir’s concert for founder"
date: 2018-05-23
description: "Lynn Whiteside (left), musical director & conductor of Wanganui Community Choir with pianist Abby Livesay..."
featured-image: 
excerpt: "Lynn Whiteside (left), musical director and conductor of Wanganui Community Choir with pianist Abby Livesay."
gallery-image-1: 
gallery-image-2: 
gallery-image-3: 
gallery-image-4: 
gallery-image-5: 
---

<p><span>Lynn Whiteside (left), musical director and conductor of Wanganui Community Choir with pianist and former WHS student Abby Livesay.</span><br /><em>PHOTO / Supplied</em></p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">The Wanganui Community Choir is in the final week of preparation for their mid year concert.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">It will be a celebration in memory of the choir&rsquo;s founder, Teiron Jones, who died suddenly last year.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Guest artists: Winifred Livesay &mdash; Started studying voice in her late teens then went to the US to continue studying at two music schools in Oregon and New Jersey. Win has worked as a soloist in opera, light opera, oratorio and as a recitalist then back in New Zealand as a chamber music musician.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Brass Whanganui Ensemble &mdash; much loved in Whanganui, they recently had great results from the Central Districts Solo competition, with Jonathon Greenwell winning the open air Verie and the Juniors winning the same event.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Aydie Holland &mdash; a member of Metamorphosis, One Trick Pony and The Wanganui Ukulele Orchestra brings a new feel to old jazz standards.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">The Choir and the Community Youth Choir will be singing favourites of Teiron who brought to the choir Negro spirituals, African, Sacred, Classical, Ma&macr; ori and show tunes.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Artists will showcase a favourite of his, and also bring some pieces of their own.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Teiron, a Welshman, was a multi-talented, and multi travelled musician who came to Wanganui from Zambia in 1991 to teach at Wanganui High School, and who formed The Wanganui Youth and Community Choir.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">He was a conductor and founder of many choirs around the world, singer of professional opera, oratorio and concert.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">As an instrumentalist, he had a natural talent for playing many instruments, and also created steel bands, using drums he made himself out of recycled oil drums.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">As a teacher he taught music in the UK, New Zealand, Zambia, Tanzania, Kenya and Oman.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">As a writer he wrote a book entitled The Easy Way To Successful Sight Singing.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">He was also a composer and arranger.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Teiron was a foundation member of the New Zealand Singers, New Zealand&rsquo;s first national representative choir.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">He was an honorary member of the National Ma&macr; ori Choir of New Zealand through his association locally with Morvin</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">Simon and his interaction with Ma&macr; ori singers and choirs.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">The choir is excited to be presenting many popular and much loved songs for all to enjoy.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data">SINGING YOU A SONG concert is on Saturday, May 26, 2pm at Central Baptist Church, Cnr Wicksteed and Dublin streets. Tickets are available at Visitor Information Centre i-Site Whanganui, 31 Taupo Quay.</p>
<p data-bind="text: $data"><em>Wanganui Midweek 23/5/18</em></p>

