---
title: Mufti Day / Pink Shirt Day / Open Mic
date: 2022-05-20T02:07:23.893Z
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1652408010/Events/Pink_Shirt_Day_2022.jpg
---
MUFTI DAY  
This Friday come to school in tidy mufti. Wear something pink!  
Please bring a gold coin donation to go towards our chosen charity. Thank you.

SAUSAGE SIZZLE  
Hello everyone, in celebration of anti-bullying week today the Moana House Leaders along with the Student Council are running a sausage sizzle. It will be held outside the gym steps near the field at first break and will cost $2. Please be prompt - limited to 200 sausages! All of the proceeds are going to Youth Line.

OPEN MIC  
Share your talent and sing out for Pink Shirt Day THIS Friday!  
Sign up now on the following bitly..   [bit.ly/psdopenmic](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xHtaYOY-yuxkRSryLdsy_tduecHEax0A0UP7jZfsAfg/viewform?edit_requested=true)

- - -

PINK SHIRT DAY, 2022 – Speak Up, Stand Together, Stop Bullying!

It's time to sharpen your pencils and launch that photoshop to show your support for Anti-Bullying week! The student council are running an Anti-Bullying Poster Competition to help spread the word about Pink Shirt Day and Spreading Kindness at WHS! Turn your entries in at the Student Centre or email your poster to one of the Student Council reps below by Thursday 19 May to be in the running for one of three EXCITING and TASTY prizes up for grabs! Posters will be judged on creativity and their use of the Anti-Bullying theme.  

Winners will be announced at the Pink Shirt Day open-mic on Friday - So get creating!

Contact robbin.e.19149@whs.ac.nz OR bedwel.s.19237@whs.ac.nz with any questions or digital submissions.