---
title: Rin Nishida
date: 2020-06-03T02:53:54.342Z
place: Japan
international: true
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/whanganuihigh/image/upload/v1591152811/International/IMG_9647.jpg
---
Hi !! I am Rin !! I think you all doesn’t want to know where I came from or how old I am cause those aren’t the most important contents. The most important thing is how I ‘ felt’ in this country.  First of all, the reason why I decided to come to NZ is to challenge myself. I just wanted to know how I will live without my family, how good my English or what kind of influence I could give to other people.. I arrived to NZ on 27th of January. To tell you the truth, I wasn’t that scared or nervous but instead I couldn’t imagine myself living in this country for about 8 months. I couldn’t visualize how I will interact with other students or with my host family. The first person I met in this country was my host mom. I could still remember the nice smell of shampoo coming from her red hair and her friendly smile towards me.
She took me to her house and I went to bed as soon as possible because it was already midnight (Because the flight was delayed ) and I had to go to school the next day!! I thought there would be 1 or 2 holidays before I go to school, but seems like it was a no, so I went to bed to rest my body from a long journey from Tokyo. 
The next day, I met my host siblings. Two host brothers and one sister. It was the first experience to have a younger sibling or a sister because I only have one elder brother. Both brothers and sister were kind to me so I was relieved, but not fully relieved. The biggest challenge this day was ‘the school’. Anyone would be nervous on the first day of school, but the nervousness faded away quickly than I expected. I was able to make a friend!! She was in the same geography class with me and she looooved Japan. (haha the luck was on my side lol) She introduced to me her friends so I was able to make many friends on the first day!! 
As the time passed, I got used to school and I loved WHS more than my school in Japan. But one thing I missed was my family. I really missed my family. My host family was so kind to me and I loved them yet I missed my family. I used to dream a lot about my family. The brother who always used to tease me, the mom who was always by my side, the dad who always used to watch TV but liked to tell jokes, I missed them a lot, yes I was home sick. Do you know how I conquered it?? Actually, if I was alone, I couldn’t have conquered it. My friends helped me. Especially my international friends. They knew my feelings because they also have experienced it. All my friends from China, Fiji, Japan, India, England, Sri Lanka, Germany, Vietnam, Thailand, all have felt anxious when they came here.