---
title: TERM 1 DATES, 2022
is_emergency: false
date: 2021-12-14T05:37:45.875Z
---
**Start Dates:**

**Monday 31 January**  
Year 9 and Year 13 students, and NEW students from all other year levels.  

**Tuesday 1 February**  
All year levels to start school.

________
________



25 January 2022

Kia ora koutou  

Welcome back to Whanganui High School for our returning students and families and a very special welcome to all new students and families in 2022.  

Due to the recent move to the Red setting of the COVID-19 Protection Framework, this brief newsletter will outline changes to our normal processes for the first two days of school for students. PLEASE NOTE FACE MASKS MUST BE WORN AT SCHOOL BY ALL STUDENTS AND STAFF.  

Monday, 31 January - Unfortunately, we will not be able to hold our school Powhiri to welcome Year 9 students, new students at other year levels, and new staff this year. New process:  

From 8.30 am to 9.30am our Year 13 prefects will escort all new students to the correct location. New students will meet their Form Teachers and begin their school day.  

By 9.30 am - All Year 9 students and other new students need to have assembled in the following venues:  

Awa House - Te Wehi Gymnasium  
Maunga House - Te Mana Gymnasium  
Moana House - Te Ihi Gymnasium  
Whenua House - the School Hall  

By 10.30 am - All Year 13 students to assemble in the above locations.  

Tuesday, 1 February - Whole school in attendance. Normal school timetable will begin.  

We are looking forward to meeting everybody over the next few days.  

Nga mihi  

Martin McAllen  
PRINCIPAL